From Ansul minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 64. Recorded live Wednesday,
June 11th, 2009. Support for Hanselman it's
as provided by tellering rad
controls. The most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdotlerikdotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks Silverlight
three with Tim Heuer. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes chatting with Tim
Heuer today. Tim, Tim and
I are peers on the
same team and Tim is
a community program manager for
Silverlight. And I figured there
wasn't anyone who knew more
about server Lite three than
Tim. So I thought it
was time to have him
on the show. Thanks a
lot, Tim, for chatting with
me today. Thanks for having
me Scott. So for me,
cause I don't live and
breathe. So like, like, like
you do, it's, you know,
it's getting a little confusing
where our versioning is getting
real fast. I assume we're
like four or five and
six are coming soon just
because the numbers are changing
so quick. What's new and
Silverlight three. Cause I'm just
now getting my brain around
server light too. Yeah. I
think one of the things
I like about Silverlight so
far is it's solid versioning,
no dot versioning so far
so less confusing at least,
but yeah, we're we have
a really quick iteration process
to at least one of
the quicker ones that I've
seen in, in Microsoft timeframe,
at least. And we're coming
up on version three and
some of the significant changes
in version three are we've
added a couple new transforms
for things like perspective 3d
we've made a significant investment
in both controls and a
framework for making developing line
of business applications a little
bit easier and enhancing the
control set in general with
built in validation and, and
things like that. Kind of
providing the developer a lot
more out of the box
rather than to have to
do a lot of that
plumbing code for them. So
those are the two areas
or two areas that I
think are some of the
significant improvements. And of course
there's also general improvements over
various new features or various
existing features from Silverlight to
performance, some standard bug fixes,
et cetera. And then the
one that feature that people
keep talking about is the,
what we call the out
of browser feature in Silverlight
three, which is a completely
new feature didn't exist in
into. So this is an
entirely new feature for three.
A lot of people didn't
think that was going to
happen. So, you know, service
has always been an in
an in browser thing and
then Adobe air kind of
came out and I think
most people think of Adobe
error in the context of
Twitter clients, which is interesting.
It's almost as if I
Toby air's a Twitter client
construction set, right? All the,
all the big Twitter clients
or our air. I wonder
if the, that that fact
is what pushed us to
do it, or if we'd
planned it the whole time
We've been planning it, you
know, it was a big
customer request to kind of
create this desktop like experience
in, in this cross platform
environment. And our implementation is
different from air as it,
as it stands right now,
we do still honor the
browser security sandbox. And so
it's not a full trust
environment, but the, the big
difference between the two from
an end customer standpoint is
there's no additional stuff to
download. So with air, you
have to have flash and
then you have to have
the air run time as
well. And then the application.
So with Silverlight it's, if
the user has Silverlight and
your application wants to take
advantage of this out of
the browser feature, it literally
is actually just one line
of code to call that
function, to take it out
of the browser. And, and
there's no additional download that
your user has to have.
So it's, it's pretty cool
in that regard. And it
was something that our customers
have been requesting and we'll
it'll evolve over time as
well. This is kind of
the first iteration of the
feature. So we already are
getting feedback on, on some
things that, that customers want
out of the feature as
well, but it's pretty cool.
It's, it's neat to see
what people are thinking about,
obviously that traveling salesmen scenario
of, you know, pretty much
any of the travel traveling
salesman, scenario, expense claims, customer
visits, orders, that type of
thing fit very well with
this kind of a thin
smart client RIA, whatever you
want to call it, that
can be detached from the
browser, run offline, and then
kind of go back to
the home office and synchronize
later Is that, that they
use of the traveling salesman
scenario. Like, like that's totally
obvious to me in that,
of course, who else would
use server light then traveling
salesman. But is that the,
is that the scenario that
you guys use? Is this
a character or a, what
do you call that when
you have a song in
name, like less like, Oh,
it's Fred, the traveling salesman.
He, everyone needs to refer
to Fred now, even though
he's some priorities from architects.
Yeah, no, we, we don't
have any specific persona. Basically
the three scenarios that that
feature is trying to, that
we think more in scenarios
lately than the actual people
personas, which I guess essentially
mapped to each other, but
the three scenarios is kind
of like the, the fully
disconnected app. So, you know,
you, you detach an application
from, from the browser and
it's, it's not network dependent.
You know, that you can
think of this as a
standalone casual game or that
type of thing. Something that
we don't care if connected
or not the fully connected
app. So it still requires
internet connection, but it's somewhat
of a more desktop like
experience. So the one that
I like to think about
is kind of that Pandora
radio concept, where you may
not want to hold browser
open the entire time, but
you have this little application
that's still essentially is a
web based application, but it's
more of a desktop feel.
And then the third would
be that occasionally connected scenario,
where if I'm connected, great
use the resources, communicate, live
data, et cetera. If I'm
not, you know, give me
some type of offline storage
mechanism that I can communicate
save later. And when I
do detect a connection, you
know, I can build in
logic to do that resolution
or synchronization, whatever that may
be. So those are the
three key areas that, that
outer browser is aiming to
solve for, for our customers
right now. So the support
that it provides is the
frame in which the application
lives, the detection of whether
you're edit will help you
detect if you're online or
offline. Correct. I'm trying to
put this around what my
offline experience, which is using
Gmail with Google gears offline,
right. And I'm not just,
I don't understand how they're
able to take these Ajax
applications and when they're not
connected to the net, they
can get to all their
resources. And I'm wondering if
the, are they basically relying
on the browser cache for
all of these things, these
JavaScript files and how that
relates to what we're relying
on? Yeah, that's, that's a
great question. I'm not exactly
sure how, I mean, I
know what the mechanism of
gears is, but I'm not
sure how someone like Google
Gmail has taken advantage of
that. I'm assuming that they're
pushing all their CSS and
logic, like you said, down
to gears as well, ours,
one of the benefits of
Silverlight is that your application
lives in a single entity
file. So we call that
a zap. It's a dot
XAP extension. So when, when
the developer creates this application,
you know, they're using visual
studio, writing, managed code, et
cetera, their UI is in
XAML when they hit compile
all that UI and all
that logic gets compiled into
this zap file. So in
our out of browser scenario,
when somebody takes that application
to their desktop, offline, detached,
whatever the term you wanna
use, basically we say, okay,
we know where we know
what that zap is. So
let's store that in this,
this location. And now we
just launch, we launched that
zap when the user double
clicks that shortcut on their
desktop. So all the, all
your logic is already self
contained in that one file.
And we don't have to
download anything additional. And so
we have, we have a,
you know, a hosting model
that basically is kind of
this launcher that basically says,
okay, you know, users detached
this application, they have the
shortcut on their desktop double
click it, we launch our
host and we say, here's,
here's this app you need
to run. And that becomes
the application. And you still
get to take advantage of
the, of dotnet isolated storage
at that point for offline
storage mechanism, things like that.
What if I had external,
what if I'm writing baby
smash for Silverlight and I
want to make it offline,
but I have resources that
I would go off to
the wire to get like
downloading wave files and movies
and things that aren't obvious
offline resources. Yeah. So there,
so in that instance, you're
dependent a little bit on
a connection. So you definitely
would want to make sure
you take advantage of those
API and say, Hey, can
I go do this? But
if the assumption is made
there that you do have
connection, you still have those
capabilities. So that the standard,
you know, web client HTTP,
web request calls still exist
in the outer browser scenario
for you to say, you
know, go fetch me this
resource loaded into, in memory,
do whatever. Or you can
still use isolated storage and
say, you know, I need
to go get this wave
file store of my own.
And then later, you know,
use it later for my
side storage as well. Okay.
So then yeah, just drop
it and download it when
I am online. Right. Bring
it to isolated storage. And
then just, if I'm offline,
get it here, get it
locally. Right. Right. Am I
able to take advantage of
the browser cache? Can I
tell the browser to download
it and then just say,
if it's in the cash,
use it, or do I
have to have my own
kind of cash with an
isolated story? You're kind of
managing your own cash within
isolated storage a little bit.
And right now that's just
because of the nature of,
of the way we're hosting
the outer browser zap. So
we're still using kind of,
you know, the platform specific
browser host models. So, but
it's in a different enough
mechanism that you shouldn't rely
on the browser cache. Huh.
Okay. Now this, sometimes Microsoft
has been criticized and also
Java and, you know, a
browser other earlier browsers with
this notion of what they
call drive by downloads, which
is the, you arrive at
a page and something immediately
happens. Whether a file gets
at, you know, in the
old days, a download would
start immediately. And then, and
this is a while back,
but then the little yellow
bar would appear and say,
and say, you know, this,
this page is trying to
download a file. And then,
you know, some, some browsers
it's easier to get it
to automatically start the download
than others. Cause drive by
downloads are not necessarily a
good thing, but sometimes people
say that Microsoft's click once
is a drive by download
click. Once is when you
can load it WPF app,
like an actual rich or
rich application, you do have
to click on it and
install it and all those
kinds of things. But if
I can suddenly start running
applications out of the browser,
does that mean I could
write a socialite virus In,
in theory? No. The everything
in silver light, that's, it's
a great thing to point
out. The differences between click
wants, especially in this type
of concept, we still honor.
So there is no in
Silverlight there's still no kind
of drive by install. It
requires user intent to actually
take an application offline. So
you can't just type in
a URL and boom, you
have a Silverlight application offline.
You have to, we always
start from an in-browser experience
and you know, your application
would have a button or
some type of command that
says, take me offline. So
the user is fully aware
of what they're doing. The
second part is that once
it is offline, we're operating
still in, in a secure
sandbox. And the best way
to think about it is
still the browser secure sandbox.
So there's, there's no, there's
no way that you would
be able to access the
local file system without the
user, again, providing intent through
some type of file dialogue
or something like that. Now,
if you have a, there's
no protection for media users,
right? I mean, if I
create this, the wicked cool
Silverlight application.com and someone thinks
it's so great. And I
say, you know, load your
Microsoft money file and they
click the button and load
their Microsoft money file. You
know, there's nothing preventing. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, if it
says typing your social security
number and they type that
we can't stop it, but,
but arguably, you know, this
is kind of a tough
one. Maybe there should be,
you know, we should protect
the idiot user. But, but
my question is that when
I run this thing, when
I go and pull out
my, my, my Twitter client,
how much do I trust
this thing? And can it,
can it go on read,
you know, C colon, whatever
could it just go anywhere?
And what kind of permission,
you know, is this thing
going a sandbox like, like,
like Java or is it
like out there in the
world doing whatever it wants?
Like, No, it isn't a
low trust environment still, which
is kind of one of
the, the benefits that, you
know, when you're, you're not
actually installing anything, you're, you're
kind of putting it. We
actually put the, the offline
applications are stored in the
same location as isolated storage.
So it's in this low
trust environment. It is in
the sandbox. And even, even
in, through the open file
dialogue mechanism, which is how
users would provide input for
file type data Silverlight is
not aware of the location
of that information. The only
thing that our runtime allows
is we say, okay, the
user has provided this C
colon food dot text, but
we're not telling you at
C colon food dot text,
we're just giving the developer
a stream that they can
read to. So the, the,
the runtime still is unaware
of where that file came
from is just aware of
the, the bytes of that
file. So in that regard,
the, the operating system and
the file system specifically is
protected, same thing happens for
writing data through mechanisms like
save file dialogue. We just
give you a stream. We
don't, we don't allow the
developer or the runtime. Doesn't
see, Oh, I'm seeing, you're
trying to save it to
see colon system 32 or
something like that. Right, right.
I'm just trying to get
a sense around the threat
modeling. Right. I don't want
to, to show up somewhere
and have a, and because
I have several, I'd have
something evil know hurt me.
I don't want applications to
like, like, like, you know,
visit a site, load up
lights, several light application leaps
out of the other dimension
into the, into the offline
mode and then hides itself
in the tray and squirrels
away. And now it's running
in the background being evil,
Right? Yeah. We've, we've done
a good amount of threat
assessment to prevent that specific
scenario. And, and again, you
know, this is the first
iteration of, of that particular
feature. So whether or not
trust levels increase in the
future that that's up in
the air, you know, but
right now we're in the
lowest trust environment. It it's
a real secure surface. It
isn't a sandbox and those
types of things shouldn't be
possible. If we do think
in the future about increasing
that trust, you know, we'll
typical kind of Microsoft will,
we'll probably have some type
of dialogue or something that
requires the user to authorize
that type of action. And
in fact, even with isolated
storage and Silverlight now, if
you go beyond the default
limit, you have to request
permission from the user to
say, I need, I'm going
to use more space of
your hard drive. Will you
allow me to do that?
We don't just automatically allow
arbitrary writing of gigs of,
of data types. So you
left, you let the USU
pop a dialogue and say,
you know, I'm willing to
give 10 megs. Yep. The
there's there's the, the runtime
itself has an API to
say, to be able to
look and say what, you
know, what's the current quota
for this application, let's say,
and by default, it's a
one Meg in the browser,
25 mags out of the
browser. And if I know
my application is going to
need 50 megs, I can
say, well, I only have
one Meg available. I'm going
to call this API to
say, request quota increase, which
pops a dialogue to the
user saying, your application says,
it needs this much space.
You currently have this much
space allocated. Would you like
to authorize the increase? And
if they say, no, it's
up to your logic to
handle that. No, if they
say yes, then that increase
automatically happens. Okay. The user's
in complete control of the
isolated storage as well. I
mean, it's right. It's not
PERMA store, you know, it's,
I can delete it at
my will. So you're, I
assume you need to write
your code such that that
storage could be deleted in
between. Sure. It shouldn't be
considered a Low trust, isolated
scratch space. Scratch. Exactly. So
I've written WPF apps and
I like, I liked WPF
apps, but now that we've
got silver light outside of
the browser, what does that
say? What message does that
say to the WPF programmer?
I mean, why would I
write anything in WPF now?
Why wouldn't I write all
of my line of business
apps and Silverlight, and now
they'll work cross browser, cross
OSTP, rather, I think WPF
is represents the best of
breed of our platform, right?
Silverlight is both a subset
of WPF from the UI
standpoint. So a subset of
XAML and the presentation framework,
as well as a subset
of the base class libraries
and.net. So there really is
simply things you cannot do
in server Lite, as it
stands today, as an example,
access to anything device peripherals,
or, you know, if you
have a scanner in your
line of business application, you
know, silver light directly cannot
access that. Whereas WPF in
a full trust environment, you
could. So there are absolutely
scenarios where WPF makes sense.
And what I always like
to tell people is when,
when they go about developing,
you know, a rich client
and they're considering Silverlight my
first question is what's, what's
your target platform. And if
the target platform is windows,
I say, Oh, you should
look at WPF. And if
they say, well, you know,
we really kind of like
that web deploy model. Okay,
great. You should look at
WPF and click once. And
then if they, you know,
if, if the question is,
you know, we, we have
a customer facing application, we
need the broadest potential. We
want the richest client on.net,
but we want the broadest
reach. Then silver light should
be considered. But if your
target is windows and especially
for, you know, kind of
a behind the firewall rich
line of business applications that
may need to do more
than what a browser security
sandbox would allow, then WPF
should really be your first
consideration and look at it
from that way. The second
thing is you could also
look at it as a
continuum of technology. So when
you look at a lot
of thick clients that you
use, or at least some
that, you know, that I've
seen is there's usually, you
know, the, the biggest and
best application, right? Let's, let's
even just use visual studio,
right? So visual studio is
a behemoth of an application,
but it provides incredible features
for a developer. But what
if we provided some type
of, you know, lighter version,
maybe just an editor of
some sort, you know, is
that a mechanism where we
can say, well, we don't
need the compiler. We don't
need DAPI skater. We don't
need, you know, the bill
management and things like that.
We just want an editor.
Could we create an online
version using, you know, a
subset of, of those technologies.
And that gives us a
little bit broader reach or
the office scenario, right. What
office is doing with, with
office and office live is
actually a good example of
that. So thinking of it,
I don't think it's a
zero sum game is basically
what I'm saying. I think
so Silverlight represents a continuum
to WPF and to other
areas of, of the development
platform as well, to even
to windows seven, et cetera.
But it also, it doesn't
have to be a zero
sum game. Each platform is,
is gonna have its sweet
spot for sure. And, you
know, that's that's as of
today, you know, in, in
five, 10 years, who knows
what the powers that be,
that are making those decisions,
you know, what the platform
will look like, but right
now, you know, silver lights,
a subset, it's not the
full dotnet framework and that
has its limitations, the cross
platform and, and a browser
application has its benefits, but
you also need to take
in consideration, what does my
application need to do? You
know, how much, how much
more code do I have
to write to get it
there that WPF has already
providing me as an example,
do you know how to
make the Possible out of
the impossible? Well, the dotnet
ninjas at Telerik do they
just released a huge pack
of web controls, all built
on top of ESPN at
Ajax, that'll help you build
impossibly fast and interactive applications
in no time at all.
They've made the impossible possible
in desktop development. If you
think you can have a
carousel component and wind forms
while you can, they're windows
form suite features a super
powerful grid view control on
32 other crazy desktop components.
That'll give you a dazzling
WPF like features, but in
wind farms, they do the
same thing in reporting solutions
with a new design surface,
like nothing else looks just
like graph paper, cause you
advanced page layout capabilities makes
it feel more like a
graphic design software than a
reporting solution. Go check them
out@telerikdotcomandbea.net Ninja. Thanks for listening.
Couldn't you get into a
situation where you you'd, you'd
say, you know, we want
a line of business application.
We want this and this
and this and several lights
looking great. And then somebody
says, Oh, and it's an
absolute requirement that this thing
needs to access the scanner.
You know, I need Twain.
I need WIA windows, image
acquisition. And then at that
point you just go, Nope,
sorry. Well, we know you
just, you just hit a
spot that several light doesn't
do so. No. Yeah. Isn't
there a way for Silverlight
to talk to a local
service such that you could,
you know, you could make
it, that you could be
talking through your requirements hit
what appears to be an
obvious, you know, stopping point.
Let's say, I want to
do an app that does
all this great stuff server
light does. And it shows
videos and it ones offline
and dah, dah, dah, but
it also needs to have
things scanned in. Sure. Could
I make a local service
so that when I'm running
on windows server, I could
say, Oh, look, there's that
service over there. He'll do
the scanning. Yeah. And, and
that's, and actually that's what
some, some people are doing.
I'd argue that once you
give it to them, I
just made that up. You
just made that. No, I'm
just like totally made that
scenario up. I like, I
was kind of half kidding.
You're saying you can actually
have your server light stuff.
Talk to another process that's
like sitting around. Absolutely. I
mean, you could, you could
have a window service that's
exposing basically, you know, a
WCF endpoint to receive and,
and communicate with in, you
know, like a message bus
of some sort, Oh, like
a little web server, local
little local web server, and
then server, like we just
talk to them, Right. I
mean, Silverlight has a supports
network sockets, so you can
absolutely do that type of
thing. But I I'd argue
once you get into that
scenario, if someone was to
say, well, yeah, we can,
you know, we can install
windows service that talks to
the scanner and then we
expose an API to allow
it to talk to that.
And I would say, well,
you just added a second
install to your application and
another dependency. Yeah. So, you
know, then, then I would
back back into that conversation
of does WPF make more
sense in this regard? And
if they go, well, you
know, on windows, we could,
we could use this service
and on other platforms, we
still want to have the
app available, but they wouldn't
have that. Okay. Then you're
getting into user experience discussion
of what kind of, how
are you devaluing your own
application on other platforms? You
know, if you start making
platform specific decisions. So that,
that really gets down to
the, you know, just because
you can do something doesn't
mean you necessarily should. And
that's, you know, Silverlight has
some pretty, pretty interesting capabilities
and there's always a way
to lash something together with,
with angle brackets and, and
paperclips. But it sounds to
me like a solution, like
that really is more of
a, of a WPF solution,
because then you get the
full framework, you get the
full and not just the
full framework from a net
perspective, but everything underneath it,
like, like I just mentioned
WIA, which is a calm
interface and, you know, Twain,
which is native and on.
Right, exactly. Yeah. Just because
you know that all the
hooks are there, but exactly
what you said, just because
you can do something doesn't
necessarily mean it's the right
thing to do. Huh. Now,
are we going to get
up to flashes on what
version? 10 version 10 are
we going to, how quickly
can we get to version
10? We're a, let's see.
October will be version four.
November will be version five.
No, I'm just kidding. No,
I think you know that
the team has been looking
at it. And if you
look at the history, it's
really been 12 month iteration
so far. And in Microsoft
timeframe, that's pretty fast. I'd
like, you know, as a
developer, everyone would like it
to be faster. I suppose,
I guess it's always 50
50, you know, push things
out too fast. People get
upset that too much thing
has come in and too
slow. It's not fast enough,
but yeah, this year long
cycle has, has, seemed to
be pretty effective. So right
now, I mean, we're already
starting planning on Silverlight for,
we're looking at, you know,
the, the forums and what
people are requesting. We have
our kind of top 10
punch list for, for things
for sort of like for
that we want to look
at and get feedback on.
And I don't, I don't
think it's unreasonable to assume
that we're going to follow
that same type of iteration
pattern. You know, we've made
no timeline roadmaps so far
for, for Silverlight for as
an example. But you know,
if, if, if history repeats
itself, you know, like I
said, I don't, I don't
think it'd be uncommon for
us to see a version
four and another quick iteration
like that. And, and the
team is agile enough that,
you know, we're allowing that
and we've actually segmented some
things to even make those
iterations quicker. So things like
the Silverlight toolkit, which has,
you know, a lot of
the STK controls, you know,
they're, they're an open source
project they're out on code
Plex. So they'll, you know,
they'll have an update for
Silverlight three one, so really
three releases. But you know,
if somebody has this cool
whizzbang new save the world
control and they can crank
it out in two months,
there's nothing preventing them from,
from releasing, you know, that
control in two months, they
don't have to wait for
Silverlight for, so really the
team has done a good
kind of segmenting core and
controls and other things in
the ecosystem is, is pretty
good to allow even pretty
decent innovation in between these
major milestones to occur. I
personally have been, I, this
is kind of where you
and I, coincidentally, both kind
of worked for Microsoft. So
sometimes, but sometimes, you know,
we, we get in trouble
for saying stuff that we
think is pretty true. But
even though it's not necessarily
the Microsoft party line, but
I, one of the things
that's kept me from getting
deeply involved in civil life
is that it seems like
the, to get the development
environment set up involves like
eight installs after just getting
visual studio itself. You know?
So it's like visual studio.
And then at the time
that I'm thinking of it's
like, so you need a
visual studio and you get
service pack, whatever. And then
you have to get the
server like tools. You have
to get the server that
SDK it's a real itself.
That is this going to
get any, any better because
that's the, the fear of
having all this extra stuff
stacked on top of my
existing visual studio installed is
keeping me from really jumping
in. And then by the
time I eventually get comfortable
enough to do that. There's
a new version coming, which
involves another new stack of
beta stuff. Right? Yeah. I'm
totally with you there. I
mean, I think one of
the biggest Achilles heel for
Microsoft, especially in the developer
division is this, you know,
this concept, which we call
what's your ship vehicle, right?
What's the shift vehicle for
product X and anything developer
related, you know, you want,
you want visual studio to
be able to be, to
be able to be the
editor for that. The problem
is, you know, visual studio
doesn't have fast iterations. You
know, they have long iterations
with specific service pack requirements
and things. And so when
you get something like Silverlight
and you go, Oh, we
need to provide tools for
visual studio, you know, doing,
wait for, for  to
provide that, or do we
release, you know, the, the
tools out of band, you
know, Microsoft calls out of
band. And so when you
see, you know, it happens
today, right? We have visual
studio 2008, but we have
how many different out-of-band releases.
Right. We've got dynamic data.
We've got ESPN VC, we've
got, we've got Silverlight so
Required tooling though. They, they
don't all require you're right.
But neither does silver. I
mean, neither does.net for that
matter. Right. I mean, you
could use no patent compiler
is all you need. Yeah,
sure. But, Well, I just,
I'm trying to think. I'm
trying not to, I'm trying
to avoid messing up my
install. Like sometimes one of
the things that I think
is a common scenario for
programmers who are on Microsoft
is that, you know, programmer
Fred is working on a
project, then a new, you
know, that that's using some
technology that's well understood like
asp.net, then a new technology
comes out and programmer, Fred
wants to mess with that
new technology. But he's afraid
that if he installs something
on his machine, it will
mess up the project he's
working on. That makes sense.
Sure, sure. So, so Silverlight
for me is always that
thing where it's like, you
know, I would install it,
but I don't know if
that's going to mess up
my install because I'm working
on something now and I
can't afford to get this
thing to, to, you know,
to mess it up. You
do bring up one good
point. I mean, so we've
done, we've done a couple
of things to mitigate that
a little bit. The first
thing that we've done for
Silverlight is there are a
couple of pieces, right? I
mean, there's the SDK, there's
the runtime and there's the
tools. So one of the
things that we've done to
kind of obviscate the confusion
a little bit is we,
we created one, one installer.
So if you're, if you're
an actual developer, you have
one install and it does
the visual studio update. It
does the developer runtime, it
deploys the STK and it
creates the project templates in
visual studio. So you're not,
you really only have to
download one thing. The second
thing though, that you pointed
out, which is, which is
key to understand is right
now, like say Silverlight two
is released and let's say,
I'm doing Silverlight to development
and you have exactly what
you just said in your
mindset. Well, I kind of
want to get into sort
of like three, but I
want to mess up what
I have. Right. Right now
that that is somewhat true.
Like once you install whatever
Silverlight development environment version you
have, that's what it is.
There's no multi targeting with,
with vs 2008. So the
second you installed the server
three tools, your machine just
became a Silverlight three developer
machine. Exactly. Yeah, exactly. Now
that changes in, in visual
studio, 2010 with multi targeting
support and you know, for,
for the.net framework. But we
also have Silverlight multi targeting
support and depth 10. It's
just something that's not going
to happen for 2008. And
again, it gets back to
those, those ships cycles of,
of those teams, you know,
what kind of investments and
priorities are they making? It's
not, not necessarily there's things
that are technically holding it
back. It's more so timing
and resources. And where do
you want to put your
efforts? Yeah. Okay. I just,
things move so fast. Even
I get overwhelmed with, with
this stuff. Yeah. I'm starting
to use a lot more
VMs to do these kinds
of things, you know? And
I'm just trying to think
that if, if you want
somebody to see your product
and mess with it, even
when it's in beta, you
know, you can't keep paving
your machine when, when things
happen now, several like three
of those sounds more like
certain improvements, but it's still,
it's still fundamentally Silverlight is
it's not. So what I'm
trying to say is it's
not several like two plus
some stuff, is it, I
mean, are they changing the
runtime? I mean, or is
it just a bunch of
extra? No, it's, it's not,
I mean, it is, you
know, there, there are updates
to the core, but it,
it's not like it's a,
you shouldn't think of it
as like a.net, three.net four
type thing from the, from
the court run time. I
hate to say two plus,
but that is, you know,
when you, when you think
about how dotnet two came
out or done at three
and three, five is probably
a better way to think
about it. Well, I mean,
th the.net desktop versioning is
just great. It's bonkers. Yeah.
So I bought it. I
like how we've simplified it.
And Silverlight of, of just
saying, you know, version two,
version three, but version three
is our goal is always
backward compatibility. So the end
user will still will have
to have, if you're running
a version three application, they're
going to need the new
plugin because, you know, you're
targeting things that just aren't
there and so relate to.
Okay. But if you have,
if you have the Silverlight
three runtime installed and you
visit it's Silverlight to application,
it will still work. It's
not like it's breaking anything.
It's not like you need
to have both plugins installed
or anything like that. So
just, just like flash for
the most part, if you
have the new step and
you visited a site that
uses the old stuff, you
won't notice a difference at
all. Correct. Okay. Huh. All
right. What have I forgotten
to ask you? I had
a list of, I had
a list of things and
you've done a pretty good
job of addressing them, them
all. What do you think
is going to keep Fred
the developer from, from trying
Silverlight out? What's in his
way? I think for me,
you know, I there's, I
look at developers really in
two larger buckets, you're a
client developer, or you're a
web developer, and I know
that's way over simplifying it,
but let's just simp over,
simplify it for a second.
I think for me, some
of the coming from the
web developer side, doing more
web than, than client when
there's, there was probably two
larger hurdling blocks that that
will not prevent people from
getting started, but probably, you
know, have their head scratching
a little bit. And that's
one that, you know, you
are in a client environment,
even though it's kind of
a web model, you, when
you're doing Silverlight, you're doing
client development and that brings
different paradigms than asp.net server
side development. Right? The, one
of the biggest ones is
asynchronous communication with services. So
if you're a web developer
and you're just used to
adding, you know, add web
reference and one line of
code, I call the web
service, the second line of
code, I used the return
of that web service, et
cetera. You know, again, that
kind of server mentality, this
asynchronous model might be new
to you and, you know,
might be a little bit
of hurdle to kind of
understand, okay, how do I
chain events together? How do
I effectively use it? And
my opinion, it's gonna ultimately
make you a more well
rounded programmer. But for some,
it kind of gets frustrating.
I was like, Oh, what's
this async handler crap I
have to deal with now.
You know? And then the
second thing I would say
is probably XAML can be
a little intimidating if you
are completely unfamiliar with it.
And you know, it is,
it is a markup language.
It is kind of analogous
to HTML as far as,
you know, containers and things
like that. But if you
haven't completely looked at it
and trying to understand the
layout mechanism and what you
should use, where and what,
what might take a little
bit, a little bit of
time just to remove that
intimidation factor, if you haven't
looked down now, luckily, you
know, again, we have the
tools to kind of, obviscate
some of that a little
bit with like expression blend
as of a UI designer,
for example. But I would
say those are kind of
some of the things that,
that might get new developers,
a little, a little concerned
off the bat. But other
than that, I mean, it's,
it's the.net side of things
is the same.net that a
developer would be used to.
So if you're doing an
asp.net today and you're writing
C-sharp or VB, it's the
same C-sharp and VB that,
that you'd be writing, it's
just, you don't have all
those base class libraries. Yeah.
That's the thing that is
the most difficult for me
when working in Silverlight or
in WPF is always the,
what can I do in
XAML and markup versus what
I can do in code
behind? I mean, literally just
yesterday, I was talking to
a buddy of mine who
was doing some, some texts
that was going to fade
away and then fade back
in and I said, Oh,
cool. You could probably do
that as a animal animation.
And he's like, you know,
I just did it in
COVID behind. And it was
really, it was interesting cause
he was really apologetic. I
said, Oh, you know, I
understood what was going on.
I mean, code behind made
sense. I understood how to
make a timer and make
this thing fade away. I
know I could do it
in XAML, but you know,
who, who wants to go
through the hassle? It seems
like the getting over the
hump on XAML is a
big, big problem for everybody.
Yeah. And, and, you know,
there's still gonna always be
two types, right? I mean,
I mean, you could write
an asp.net application that just
says a single placeholder control.
Right. And just dynamically inject
things all day long, but
does it, you know, it
doesn't make sense. I mean,
if you're a hardcore developer
and you live and you
live in, you'd rather live
in code, you can certainly
do that. I think that's
kind of the benefit of
our platform is, you know,
we have, we have this
thing called XAML that you
can represent, you know, UI
elements as angle brackets and
things, but they're this, you
can still represent them as
code and they're, I mean,
they are objects themselves really
XAML. I mean, if you,
if you look at XAML
and a tag, like button,
the button tag and XAML
is nothing more than an
instantiation command. I mean, it's
new, you know, effectively it's
new button. That's what that
angle bracket button means. So,
you know, that's kind of
a weird way to think
about it, but that's really
what's happening behind the scenes.
But yeah, I mean, I
think, I think that that
can be a challenge, especially
in when, you know, when
you're the sole developer and
you don't have this kind
of designer developer workflow that
we keep talking about that
you're trying to figure out,
how can I, you know,
how can I get from
a, to B quickly and,
Oh, I know how to
do that in code. I'll
just do it in code.
And there's, I don't think
there's anything wrong with that,
that type of thinking. I
think, you know, the challenges
you'll face is once you
start hitting into maybe certain
types of pattern development, or
now you've added another team
member or another UI view
that you have to integrate
with, you know, how now,
how does that code work
with the rest of your
application? But I don't necessarily
think there's anything wrong with
that way of thinking. In
fact, we tell people, you
know, you can create a
button in zoom or you
can create an encode. We
don't care. Hmm. I think
that you don't care because
it works, but with all
things, there's an intrinsic sense
of the aesthetic. And I've
always felt that went with
XAML with the PF, with
Silverlight there's always a, For
some reason, somewhere along the
process, it gets started that
if you can do it
in XAML, that's more impressive.
That's somehow better, which I
don't quite understand because it's
harder to debug. If something
goes wrong, it's not like
you're going to drop into
the code and in a
friendly break point, you know,
so I'm, I'm still trying
to get my head around
when it's time to just
cut bait and let it
happen in the code behind.
And I feel dirty when
I do it. Yeah. And
that's where some of these
patterns are emerging. Right. So
one of the more popular
patterns in, in XAML development,
both WPF and Silverlight is
this model, view, view, model,
pattern that kind of is
this, this guideline or pattern
that talks about, you know,
you really shouldn't put any
type of UI logic in
your, in your code area,
right? I mean, you should,
you should have this thing
called a view. And that
represents literally the view of,
of your, of your UI.
And it has your UI
elements. And the view model
is this kind of glue
that, that is the code
that talks to and does
the data binding and et
cetera. And that view model
is the thing that becomes
more testable, easier to debug
that you're not, you're not
coupling it with, you know,
just kind of this two
tier tier is probably not
the best word, but, you
know, code behind kind of
approach type thing. So the,
you know, that the view
model approach is one pattern
that's, that's emerging to try
to solve or try to
provide better guidance on that
type of development problem that
you just mentioned, you know,
how, how do I, where
is the best place to
put things and how do
I make it the most
productive development environment for me,
both in creation, as well
as debugging and maintenance as
well. Yeah. We should do
another talk at some point
about, about the kind of
this code smell, because I'm
finding more and more and
more as I start doing
work with more and more
diverse amounts of, of, of
technology that, that I, sometimes
I get paralyzed with the
inability to move forward because
I can't come up with
a way to make something
aesthetically. Correct. I can't get
the code to the point
where I, it doesn't, it
doesn't make me want to
barf. It works, but it
doesn't make you feel right.
Right. Pretty much. Yeah. Well,
thanks, Tim. I really appreciate
you sitting down and taking
the time to talk to
me about, about sober life
and hopefully I'll get you
back on, we'll talk about
several light for absolutely. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and I'll see
you again next week.